---
tag: shower thoughts
---

This morning in the shower, I think I realized that I love my wife, I'm
attracted to her, and really only _want_ to be attracted to _her_.

In this generation it's common to consider sexuality as a core of a person's
identity. While I hardly think that sexuality is a very important aspect of me
(side note: I am no longer 18) I think from the outside I would probably get
labeled as a heterosexual.

The thought I had this morning doesn't gel with the idea of heterosexuality,
though. I think heterosexuality implies that I, being male, will be attracted
to either any female, or all females. Having met many human beings in my life,
in many stages of life and of many personalities and habits and cultures, I can
report with deep certainly that I am not attracted to all females.

The things that most attract me to my wife are not particularly sexual. Sense
of humor is a big thing for us, also many shared experiences and hardships
(during our relationship, but also similar stories before), the exploration of
our own wonderful dichotomy of thought...

The longer our relationship is, the less it's defined by physical attraction,
and frankly, the less it _needs to be_. But at the same time, the more and more
I find myself more deeply contented than perhaps my 18-year-old self, ever
drowning in hormones, could have imagined.

Also, I don't mean strictly that I am monogamous. It's certainly related to the
ways that I express my sexuality. It's a legal arrangement I have between my
wife and Uncle Sam. (And, having been married in Japan, Amaterasu?) Maybe I'm
jaded by 21st century western values but I think taking a wide view of any
sexuality (or, attraction) tends to imply a wideness of attraction across huge
swaths of the human population. Gender tends to be seen as the limiting factor,
while I think many other dimensions are there: age, personality, interests,
attractiveness, etc. In any case, I think looking at sexuality from that angle
paints monogamy as a massive restriction on any dimension of sexuality. I'd
argue that it is not a restriction, but a freeing to focus on a depth of
exploration of another human rather than something more wide but surface-depth.

I find myself desiring more and more to put away childish desires, and to focus
ever more on _her_. There are, of course, tensions and stresses and arguments and
fights, as well as other temptations in many forms. But I don't, ultimately and
in my most sober thoughts, want those. I suspect some (maybe many) (maybe most)
do want to fight the fights and succumb to the temptations. At least, that's
what a lot of media and entertainment would lead me to believe, and my own
understanding of the natural desires of humans.

I think this could be expressed as something like "unisexual." Not unisex in
the sense that a T-shirt might be "unisex" and therefore suitable for anyone,
of course. Unisexual in a more exact sense, that I am a human that will choose
to avoid exploration of many partners (real or virtual or imagined) in favor of
one. I don't propose this term to suggest other sexualities are or are not a
choice, I think that's a different topic for a different day and a different
person, but I do suggest that being unisexual is a choice. (In fact, many
choices throughout the life of a relationship.) I don't expect it is a naturally
occurring phenomenon, though both heterosexuality and monogamy have occurred
naturally and without advanced human planning across all historical cultures.

I don't know if I've explained myself, but I thought something like this this
morning.

